Touch up k8s executor doc (#19339)
mistercrunch/Airflow: docs/apache-airflow/executor/kubernetes.rst

Kubernetes Executor
===================

The kubernetes executor is introduced in Apache Airflow 1.10.0. The Kubernetes executor will create a new pod for every task instance.
The Kubernetes executor runs each task instance in its own pod on a Kubernetes cluster.

> Example kubernetes files are available at ``scripts/in_container/kubernetes/app/{secrets,volumes,postgres}.yaml`` in the source distribution (please note that these examples are not ideal for production environments).

Author: these files are not there.  and it's unclear anyway what kind of "files" we're talking about

- **Dags**:

>   - By storing dags on a persistent volume, it will be made available to all workers

Author: it's a little unclear to me what this line is actually meant to help the user understand. in order to use a PV, wouldn't you also need to have set up git sync, so that you actually get dags onto the volume? but here it's sort of represented as an alternative to git sync?

Reviewer: Totally possible to have a PV that is populated by CICD. That said, this whole section until `pod_template_file` feels a little out of place to me for KubenetesExecutor docs 🤷‍♂️. This likely made more sense when those example yaml files did exist.

Author: > Totally possible to have a PV that is populated by CICD

Good point.

> That said, this whole section until pod_template_file feels a little out of place to me for KubenetesExecutor docs 🤷‍♂️. 

I agree -- this kind of subject seems to make more sense in helm chart.  I can do another pass through with this in mind, and try to focus it just on the executor and if we need to point to helm chart docs where it gets more into implementation -- LMKYT

Reviewer 2: yeah DAG deployment strategies should be out of this doc and we already have it for the Helm Chart

Author: OK so, after some reflection, one thought on this section.

Users don't need to use our helm chart, nor do they even need to be running airflow on k8s, in order to use k8s executor.  They just need access to a cluster.  E.g. you could have scheduler and webserver running on ECS, and send your pods to an eks cluster you have access to.  

So with that in mind, looking only at k8s executor, it doesn't seem unreasonable to keep this brief section on how to manage dags and logs.

Reviewer 2: In that case, can we have a separate section before "Comparison with CeleryExecutor"?

Author: sure -- just reorganized, ptal

Kubernetes Executor
===================

The Kubernetes executor runs each task instance in its own pod on a Kubernetes cluster.

> KubernetesExecutor runs as a process in the Airflow Scheduler.  The scheduler itself does

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
KubernetesExecutor runs as a process in the Airflow Scheduler. The scheduler itself does
```

pod_template_file
#################

> As of Airflow 1.10.12, you can use the ``pod_template_file`` option in the ``kubernetes`` section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Airflow 2.0.0, you now use the ``pod_template_file`` option in the ``kubernetes`` section
```

Might as well rip off the bandaid - docs are versioned after all.

Author: I think the intention of this sentence is to say when the feature was added, so if we want to leave it structured like this I think it makes sense to leave 1.10.12.  However, at a certain point, it doesn't matter when the feature was added.  So we _could_ just remove that reference and get to the point --- "To customize the pod used for k8s executor worker processes, _use_ `pod_template_file`..." or similar.  WDYT?

Reviewer: Yeah, lets do that. Might be able to get rid of the last sentence in this paragraph too then - it made more sense when both this and the airflow.cfg approach was supported.

of the ``airflow.cfg`` file to form the basis of your KubernetesExecutor pods. This process is faster to execute
and easier to modify compared with the legacy configuration approach.

We include multiple examples of working pod operators below, but we would also like to identify a few components
that you must include if you want to provide a custom template file. Aside from these components, every other
element in the template is customizable.

1. Airflow will overwrite the base container ``image`` and the pod's ``metadata.name``.

There are two points where Airflow potentially overwrites the base image: in the ``airflow.cfg``
or the ``pod_override`` (discussed below) setting. This value is overwritten to ensure that users do
not need to update multiple template files every time they upgrade their docker image. The other field
that Airflow overwrites is the ``metadata.name`` field. This field has to be unique across all pods,
so we generate these names dynamically before launch.

It's important to note although Airflow overwrites these fields, they **can not be left blank** in the template.

> If these fields are not present in the template, kubernetes can not load the yaml into a Kubernetes V1Pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If these fields are not present in the template, kubernetes can not load the yaml into a Kubernetes ``V1Pod``.
```

KubernetesExecutor Architecture
################################

The KubernetesExecutor runs as a process in the Scheduler that only requires access to the Kubernetes API (it does *not* need to run inside of a Kubernetes cluster). The KubernetesExecutor requires a non-sqlite database in the backend, but there are no external brokers or persistent workers needed.

> For these reasons, we recommend the KubernetesExecutor for deployments have long periods of dormancy between DAG execution.

Author: i removed line 142 because it's a bit too vague

    :start-after: [START task_with_template]
    :end-before: [END task_with_template]

Managing dags and logs
######################

> Use of persistent volumes is optional and depends on your configuration. There are two types of volumes you may configure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use of persistent volumes is optional and depends on your configuration.
```

- **Dags**:

> 
>   - By storing dags on a persistent volume, it will be made available to all workers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the DAGs into the workers, you can:
```

>   - Alternatively, you can include dags in the image, or you can use use ``git-sync``.  With ``git-sync``, before starting the worker container,
>     a git pull of the dags repository will be performed and used throughout the lifecycle of the pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Include dags in the image.
  - Use ``git-sync`` which, before starting the worker container, will run a ``git pull`` of the dags repository.
  - Storing dags on a persistent volume, which can be mounted on all workers.
```

- **Logs**:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To get task logs out of the workers, you can:

```

>   - You can enable a persistent volume shared between webserver and workers to store task logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Use a persistent volume mounted on both the webserver and workers.
```

>   - If you don't enable logging persistence, and if you have not enabled remote logging, logs will be lost after the worker pods shut down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Enabled remote logging.

.. note::

    If you don't enable logging persistence, and if you have not enabled remote logging, logs will be lost after the worker pods shut down.
```

    :start-after: [START task_with_template]
    :end-before: [END task_with_template]

Managing dags and logs
######################

Use of persistent volumes is optional and depends on your configuration.

> - **Dags**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Dags**:

```
Oops, missed a newline.

.. @enduml
.. image:: ../img/k8s-happy-path.png

Comparison with CeleryExecutor
------------------------------

In contrast to CeleryExecutor, KubernetesExecutor does not require additional components such as Redis and Flower, but does require access to Kubernetes cluster.

With KubernetesExecutor, each task runs in its own pod. The pod is created when the task is queued, and terminates when the task completes.
Historically, in some cases this presented a resource utilization advantage over CeleryExecutor, where you needed a fixed number of
long-running celery worker pods, whether or not there were tasks to run.

However, the official Apache Airflow helm chart can automatically scale celery workers down to zero based on the number of tasks in the queue,
so when using the official chart, this is no longer an advantage.

> With Celery workers you will tend to have less task latency because the worker pod is already up and running when the task is queued.  On the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Celery workers you will tend to have less task latency because the worker pod is already up and running when the task is queued. On the
```

other hand, because multiple tasks are running in the same pod, with Celery you may have to be more mindful about resource utilization
in your task design, particularly memory consumption.

> An positive of KubernetesExecutor is if you have long-running tasks.  With KubernetesExecutor, if you do a deployment while a task is running,
> the task will keep running until it completes (or times out, etc).  But with CeleryExecutor, provided you have set a grace period, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An positive of KubernetesExecutor is if you have long-running tasks. With KubernetesExecutor, if you do a deployment while a task is running,
the task will keep running until it completes (or times out, etc). But with CeleryExecutor, provided you have set a grace period, the
```

task will only keep running up until the grace period has elapsed, at which time the task will be terminated.

> Finally, note that it doesn't have to be either-or.  With CeleryKubernetesExecutor you have the best of both worlds.  Tasks by default will
> go to Celery workers.  But if you want a task to run with KubernetesExecutor, you send it to the ``kubernetes`` queue and it will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, note that it doesn't have to be either-or as with CeleryKubernetesExecutor you have the best of both worlds. Tasks by default will
go to Celery workers, however if you want a task to run with KubernetesExecutor, you send it to the ``kubernetes`` queue and it will
```

.. @enduml
.. image:: ../img/k8s-happy-path.png

Comparison with CeleryExecutor
------------------------------

In contrast to CeleryExecutor, KubernetesExecutor does not require additional components such as Redis and Flower, but does require access to Kubernetes cluster.

With KubernetesExecutor, each task runs in its own pod. The pod is created when the task is queued, and terminates when the task completes.

> Historically, in some cases this presented a resource utilization advantage over CeleryExecutor, where you needed a fixed number of
> long-running celery worker pods, whether or not there were tasks to run.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Historically, in some cases, this presented a resource utilization advantage over CeleryExecutor for burst-able workloads (where you needed a fixed number of
long-running celery worker pods, whether or not there were tasks to run).
```

> However, the official Apache Airflow helm chart can automatically scale celery workers down to zero based on the number of tasks in the queue,

Reviewer 2: Would be good to cross-link the Chart doc home page

so when using the official chart, this is no longer an advantage.

With Celery workers you will tend to have less task latency because the worker pod is already up and running when the task is queued. On the
other hand, because multiple tasks are running in the same pod, with Celery you may have to be more mindful about resource utilization
in your task design, particularly memory consumption.

> An positive of KubernetesExecutor is if you have long-running tasks. With KubernetesExecutor, if you do a deployment while a task is running,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A positive of KubernetesExecutor is if you have long-running tasks. With KubernetesExecutor, if you do a deployment while a task is running,
```

But What About Cases Where the Scheduler Pod Crashes?
=====================================================

In cases of scheduler crashes, the scheduler will recover its state using the watcher's ``resourceVersion``.

> When monitoring the Kubernetes cluster's watcher thread, each event has a monotonically rising number called a resourceVersion.
> Every time the executor reads a resourceVersion, the executor stores the latest value in the backend database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When monitoring the Kubernetes cluster's watcher thread, each event has a monotonically rising number called a ``resourceVersion``.
Every time the executor reads a ``resourceVersion``, the executor stores the latest value in the backend database.
```
There's one more on the following line, but I can't suggest it here.
